Everyone says Eren has changed.
I believed that, too.
But, maybe that wasn't true.
Maybe Eren hasn't changed at all
from the beginning.
If that's how Eren has always been...
Then what part of Eren
I've been seeing all these years?
So there really are cities outside
the walls and people living in them.
Don't say stuff about walls
in front of strangers, okay?
Oh, yeah. Of course.
So this is the continent beyond the walls.
And we're the first group of human from
within the walls to step foot outside!
I told you not to say that!
You could say this what
our job is really about.
Let's begin the survey.
(The Dawn of Humanity)
Everyone!
Welcome to the continent of Marley!
Allow me to show you to
Lady Azumabito's mansion.
Onyankopon!
I'm so glad you guys made it!
What do you think?
This is Marley's biggest port city--
That horse... or is even a horse?
- Eh?
- Cow.
It's a cow! It has to be some kind of cow!
It's a car.
We heard about them before
we came here, right?
Hey! Car!
This is bad. People are staring at us.
They must think we're
a group of bumpkins now.
- Eh?
- Let's pretend we don't know them.
- Hello! Car! Hey!
- Wait for us!
If you don't stop them, they'll start
feeding carrots to that lump of iron.
You must be kidding--
They're buying carrots!
So many people.
Hey, Eren. There's no telling
what'll happen, so stay close to me.
Eren?
Y-Yeah...
Quit spacing out, Eren!
We're in the outside world, aren't we?
Yeah.
This is the other side of the sea... right?
Hey, don't walk off too far.
Especially you.
We're coming!
Watch out, kid!
I'll take this, please.
Thanks.
Here you go.
Hey, Sasha!
Don't go off buying stuff again!
This thing's cold!
Let me try that!
First time eating ice cream?
Whoa! What's this?!
- This is delicious!
- I'll have one, too!
Me too!
Just how many times have we told
them to keep a low profile...?
No one would thought they're
the "devils" from that island.
Hey, guys! You should try this, too!
Hey there, kiddo.
Would you like some sweet, tasty candy?
I'm talking to you.
That's a cool look!
Are you kiddos playing gangster?
I smell something good over there!
It might be what Niccolo talked about!
Three more of those, please!
Thank you.
Eren!
You should try, too.
Ice cream?
You knew?
From the old man's memory, that is.
Eldians living in the internment zone
rarely get to eat one.
Even though there are so many
things outside the walls.
We didn't notice.
Or perhaps, we refused to.
Hey!
That isn't your purse.
A pickpocket!
Another immigrant
from an enemy state?
How did you get here?
He must've snuck onto a ship!
Looks like he can't understand us.
How about we toss him into the sea?
Nah, let's just smash his right hand.
That'll stop him from stealing again.
Let's tie him up somewhere in the open
for a while so everyone can see.
Surely that'll teach the others
to quit stealing.
Hold up! That's going to far!
I already got my purse back.
This isn't your problem, Missy.
We must punish him to set an example.
It's a problem for all of us merchants
making a living here.
Not only that, he might even be
a Subject of Ymir.
This is why countries around the world
have been frantic with blood tests for years.
Nobody could sleep at night knowing
these devil blood lurking around nearby.
Hey! What are you doing?
Who said he was a pickpocket?
I only said it wasn't his purse.
The purse is his older sister's.
Yeah, they've got a really complicated
family situation, you know?
Isn't that right, Sis?
Yeah!
I'm sorry about my little brother!
You really expect us to buy that?!
Let's go!
Hey! Wait!
Where did that brat go?
Ah, over there.
Well, that's just the money
I got from the Azumabitos, anyway.
I'm sorry you went through that.
It is true that as blood testing
technology has improved,
Subjects of Ymir who escaped the interment
are being discovered around the world,
and it became an issue.
At the height of the Eldian Empire,
having a Subject of Ymir in one's bloodline
was widely considered
to be the proof of one's nobility.
But as the Empire crumbled,
those people were forced into exile.
This is what Eldians outside
of the walls are facing.
Also, it makes the plan for
Paradis island to advocate harmony
become extremely
difficult to be executed.
But if we were to abandon
the path of peace,
we'll have no option but to
ride on Zeke's conspiracy.
We'll have to put our fates in his hand...
and sacrifice Historia as well as
the children she'd give birth to...
Yeah.
Of course, we're here to avoid
that future from happening.
We'll attend the international forum
tomorrow for the unveiling
of the Association to Protect
the Subjects of Ymir.
Like before, we still don't know exactly
what this association stands for.
Yes. For now, we'll need to carefully
observe them from afar.
And if that association shares
the same value as us...
You'll go and tell them
that Paradis seeks peace.
Yes.
It goes without saying that the Azumabito clan
wishes to help bring this peace as well.
But just how realistic
do you believe this plan to be?
We understand how difficult it is.
And how dangerous, as well.
But even with that in mind,
all we can do here is to try our best.
Very well.
Where's Eren?
Eren!
You do realize that you're
our enemies' biggest target, right?
Everyone has been
looking all over for you!
The boy from the market?
What happened?
Nothing yet.
Eh? What do you mean?
What's this place?
After the war left them with no home,
they all gathered here to live.
They're just like us.
One day, their regular lives just ended,
and everything was taken away from them.
They were deprived of all their freedoms.
Mikasa.
Why do you care so much about me?
Eh?
Is it because I saved you
when we were little?
Or is it because I'm your family?
Eh? Huh?
What am I to you?
You...
You are...
You're family.
Eh?
(Please come with us inside.)
Huh?
They seem to be welcoming us.
Hey!
What the hell are you doing, Eren!
You moron!
Perfect timing.
(Enjoy!)
We seek aid for the displaced Subjects of Ymir
refugees who are scattered across nations!
These refugees were never once Eldians,
nor do they have anything with
the dangerous ideologies of the Eldian Empire!
They're nothing more than sad victims,
forced by the Eldian empire to inbreed!
It is none other than the devils
of that island that deserves our hatred!
The devils who escaped to that island
100 years ago are the ones we must abhor!
Our enemies are those island devils!
That was the day Eren left us.
On the letter we later
received from him,
he said he would entrust
everything to Zeke.
And the next time we met,
everything was already too late.
I wonder if there was any other choice
we could have made.
Maybe everything has been
decided from the very beginning.
But I still can't help but to think.
What if, on that day...
I chose another answer?
Then maybe things would've
turned out differently.
I wonder where it all started.
Back there?
No...
The place doesn't matter at all.
It was all what I wanted.
Everything is still ahead.
Eren, the only way to save both the world
and Eldia is the Euthanization plan.
Seeing this through is the only way.
I've distributed the wines
injected with spinal fluid
to the military's top brass
who'd hinder our reforms.
Zeke trusts you.
So please trust Zeke.
I'll pretend to follow Zeke's plan.
You should do so, too.
What will you do by doing that?
The Military Police is planning
to turn you into a Titan
and feed Zeke to you
once he's on the island.
Our only options are to fight
the Military Police or to run away.
It's not like I've only been tending
to cattle all this time.
I know.
There's no need to fight or to run.
Whatever the most reliable way
to ensure this island's survival is,
I'll go along with it.
There was no other way.
But, back then, you stood up for me.
Everyone helped.
That's enough for me.
That might be good for you,
but not for me.
Eh?
I'll destroy the world.
I'll wipe out all my enemies
from this world.
Until not a single one of them remain.
You're making a mistake!
Not everyone outside are our enemies!
Most of them will be like your mother!
They'll die not even knowing
why it happens!
I know, but...
The only way to completely end
the cycle of revenge born from hate
is to completely bury that history
along with the civilization that created it.
They want you to birth a child
to sacrifice for this island
and keep forcing children
to eat their parents.
I won't let them.
Eren, if I don't do everything
I can to stop you...
...I won't be able to live a life
I can be proud of anymore.
If you can't take it,
I can manipulate your memory
with the power the Founding.
You just have to keep quiet until--
I can't do that!
You can.
You saved me back then.
You're the baddest girl in the world.
Headache?
A disease unique to the Ackerman clan?
I've never heard that from
the Titan research or Mr. Ksaver.
Records do show Ackermans
often awaken their power
when their survival instincts are triggered.
But an ingrained behaviour
to protect their "host"?
I'm pretty sure there's no such thing.
From how I see it,
Eren, there's no secret reason,
ingrained behaviour,
or compelled instinct behind it.
She just simply likes you so much
that she'd snap a Titan's neck for you.
Then, Eren...
So, how will you respond?
What are you talking about, Brother?
I only have four years left to live at most.
What about me having a child?
Even after I die,
their lives will still continue.
I want them to.
So they can...
...live a long, happy life.
The global allied fleet.
Nearly all of the largest cannons
that exist on this planet
have been gathered here,
in one place.
Every bit of human brainpower now
has its sights fixed on the same target.
It took a miracle to assemble this fleet,
and if we fail...
then humanity has nothing on
this world that could stop this.
This Rumbling.
That is...
Yeah, it's him.
The Attacking Titan!
I'll exterminate them.
I will wipe them off from this world...
...until none of them remain!
(Conclusion Arc)
(To air on NHK General in 2023)